AVISO: cero celdas tecleadas. Cada linea es la que sed -n imprime de fuentes/gerber_emyth/cap_04.md.
UNICA TRANSFORMACION DECLARADA: 0 guion(es) largo(s) U+2014 sustituido(s) por coma mas
espacio y 0 guion(es) medio(s) U+2013 por guion corto, porque el barrido de estilo de
esta casa tumba los dos. El resto es byte a byte el del libro.

285: “An Entrepreneur does the work of envisioning the business as something apart from you, the owner. The work of asking all the right questions about why this business, as opposed to that business? Why a pie baking business rather than a body shop? If you are a baker of pies, it’s easy for you to decide to open up a pie-baking business. But that’s just the point. If you are a baker of pies and are determined to do entrepreneurial work, you would leave your pie-baking experience behind you and engage in the internal dialogue with which every truly entrepreneurial personality is wonderfully familiar.
287: “You would begin to say to yourself, ‘It’s time for me to create a new life. It’s time for me to challenge my imagination and to begin the process of shaping an entirely new life. And the best way to do that anywhere in this whole wide opportunity-filled world is to create an exciting new business. One that can give me everything that I want, one that doesn’t require me to be there all the time, one that has the potential to be stunningly unique, one that people will talk about long after having shopped in it the very first time, and, as a result of that delightful experience, will come back to shop there again because it has such a special flavor to it. I wonder what that business would be?’
289: “I wonder what that business would be?” I said to Sarah, “is the truly entrepreneurial question. The dreaming question, I call it. It’s the question that is at the heart of the work of an Entrepreneur. I wonder. I wonder. I wonder.
291: “So the work of an Entrepreneur is to wonder,” I continued. “To imagine and to dream. To see with as much of herself as she can muster the possibilities that waft about in midair someplace there above her head and within her heart. Not in the past but in the future. That’s the work the entrepreneurial personality does at the outset of her business and at each and every stage along the way. I wonder. I wonder. I wonder. Just as every inventor must. Just as every composer must. Just as every artist, or every craftsperson, or every physicist must. Just as every baker of pies must. I call it Future Work. ‘I wonder’ is the true work of the entrepreneurial personality.”
