9: Call to Action
11: When was the last time you walked around your organization to hear about the good, the bad, and the ugly of top-down management? W ...
13: December 16, 1998: On Board USS Santa Fe, Pearl Harbor, Hawaii (twenty-four days to change of command)
15: According to procedure, I was to spend the next two weeks reviewing everything on the ship, including training records, school rec ...
17: I attended a department head meeting, a routine review of maintenance issues, in the wardroom. The wardroom is a small room in whi ...
19: I looked around at the four department heads. These were the key individuals I would go to war with, entrust the lives of the 135 ...
21: The meeting started. Lieutenant Dave Adams, the weapons officer (Weps), briefed a problem with the vertical launch system (VLS) in ...
23: After the meeting I followed Dave to his stateroom.
25: "Weps, you seemed a bit frustrated."
27: "Look, Captain, I have a vision of how I want this department to operate," he began. As I listened to him tell me about how he wan ...
29: In essence, Dave was describing a problem inherent in the leader-follower model, although he didn't use those words. Because of hi ...
35: As things on Santa Fe deteriorated, the crew adopted a hunker-down mode in which avoiding mistakes became the primary driver for a ...
37: During one of my walks around, I noted that one junior sailor looked particularly forlorn. When I pressed him on how he was doing, ...
39: The Standard Submarine Organization and Regulations Manual (SSORM) states that the XO will sign all enlisted leave chits (and the ...
41: We had done this sailor wrong.
43: I rushed about, tracked down his leave chit [CORTADA ANTE GUION DEL LIBRO]
45: Once I had acquainted myself with my men, I devoted time to observing some of the ship's routines. One morning I was talking to th ...
47: Rick flipped through the sheets of paper and was visibly aggravated. "Here, look at this," he said. By protocol the messages are r ...
49: The message board had already been to the captain and XO. Many of the messages had notes on them from one or both: things like "En ...
51: "Why do you think the captain and XO feel they need to write those things?"
53: "Well, look, I may be wrong, but let's say something doesn't happen [CORTADA ANTE GUION DEL LIBRO]
55: As was the case with the message board, like every other submarine, Santa Fe had quarters on the pier a couple times a week. This ...
57: As the formation went on, I wandered around the periphery. Standing in the back, where most of the crew was, I couldn't make out a ...
59: • • •
61: The overwhelming sense on the ship was that we needed to avoid problems: avoid drunken driving citations, avoid liberty incidents, ...
69: I went back to Commodore Kenny and told him I could definitely work with this. We would deploy on time.
71: QUESTIONS TO CONSIDER
