# las lineas del libro traen guiones largos; se imprimen con | sed 's/[guion largo y medio]/-/g' porque el barrido de la casa no los admite en .v63ext/ (D.20). Nada mas se toca.
$ sed -n '57p' fuentes/grove_high_output/cap_02.md
Now let’s complicate things a little further. What happens if you are stuck in line waiting for a toaster when it’s time to start boiling your egg? Your conflict is seemingly irreconcilable, but it really isn’t. If you were managing the restaurant, you could turn your personnel into specialists by hiring one egg-cooker, one toast-maker, one coffee-pourer, and one person to supervise the operation. But that, of course, creates an immense amount of overhead, probably making it too expensive to consider.

$ sed -n '59p' fuentes/grove_high_output/cap_02.md
If you were a waiter, you could ask the waiter in line next to you to help out-to put your toast in while you ran off to start your egg. But when you have to depend on someone else, the results are likely to be less predictable. As the manager, you could add another toaster, but this becomes an expensive addition of capital equipment. You could run the toaster continuously and build up an inventory of hot toast, throwing away what you can’t use but always having immediate access to product. That means waste, which can also become too expensive for the operation. But at least you know that alternatives do exist: equipment capacity, manpower, and inventory can be traded off against each other and then balanced against delivery time.

$ sed -n '61p' fuentes/grove_high_output/cap_02.md
Because each alternative costs money, your task is to find the most cost-effective way to deploy your resources-the key to optimizing all types of productive work. Bear in mind that in this and in other such situations there is a right answer, the one that can give you the best delivery time and product quality at the lowest possible cost. To find that right answer, you must develop a clear understanding of the trade-offs between the various factors-manpower, capacity, and inventory-and you must reduce the understanding to a quantifiable set of relationships. You probably won’t use a stopwatch to conduct a time-and-motion study of the person behind a toaster; nor will you calculate the precise trade-off between the cost of toast inventory and the added toaster capacity in mathematical terms. What is important is the thinking you force yourself to go through to understand the relationship between the various aspects of your production process.

$ sed -n '17p' fuentes/grove_high_output/cap_03.md
Let’s say that as manager of the breakfast factory, you will work with five indicators to meet your production goals on a daily basis. Which five would they be? Put another way, which five pieces of information would you want to look at each day, immediately upon arriving at your office?

$ sed -n '27p' fuentes/grove_high_output/cap_03.md
Finally, you want to have some kind of quality indicator. It is not enough to monitor the number of breakfasts each waiter delivers, because the waiters could have been rude to the customers even as they served a record number of breakfasts. Because your business depends on people wanting what you sell, you must be concerned with the public’s opinion of your service. Perhaps you should set up a “customer complaint log” maintained by the cashier. If one of your waiters elicited more than the usual number of complaints yesterday, you will want to speak to him first thing today.

$ sed -n '125p' fuentes/grove_high_output/cap_03.md
But if we have carefully chosen indicators that characterize an administrative unit and watch them closely, we are ready to apply the methods of factory control to administrative work. We can use de facto standards, inferred from the trend data, to forecast the number of people needed to accomplish various anticipated tasks. By rigorous application of the principles of forecasting, manpower can be reassigned from one area to another, and the headcount made to match the forecasted growth or decline in administrative activity. Without rigor, the staffing of administrative units would always be left at its highest level and, given Parkinson’s famous law, people would find ways to let whatever they’re doing fill the time available for its completion. There is no question that having standards and believing in them and staffing an administrative unit objectively using forecasted workloads will help you to maintain and enhance productivity.

$ sed -n '135p' fuentes/grove_high_output/cap_03.md
When material is rejected at incoming inspection, a couple of choices present themselves. We can send it back to the vendor as unacceptable, or we can waive our specifications and use the substandard material anyway. The latter would result in a higher reject rate in our production process than if we had used thoroughly acceptable material, but that might be less expensive than shutting down the factory altogether until our vendor provides better material. Such decisions can only be made properly by a balanced group of managers, which typically consists of representatives from the quality assurance, manufacturing, and design engineering departments. This group can weigh all the consequences of rejecting or accepting substandard raw material.

$ sed -n '141p' fuentes/grove_high_output/cap_03.md
Let’s consider a few techniques commonly used to balance the two needs. There is a gate-like inspection and a monitoring step. In the former, all material is held at the “gate” until the inspection tests are completed. If the material passes, it is moved on to the next stage in the production process; if the material fails, it will be returned to an earlier stage, where it will be reworked or scrapped. In the latter, a sample of the material is taken, and if it fails, a notation is made from which a failure rate is calculated. The bulk of the material is not held as the sample is taken but continues to move through the manufacturing process. The smoothness of the flow is maintained, but if, for example, three successive samples fail the monitoring test, we can stop the line. What is the trade-off here? If we hold all the material, we add to throughput time and slow down the manufacturing process. A monitor produces no comparable slowdown but might let some bad material escape before we can act on the monitor’s results and shut things down, which means that we might have to reject material later at a higher-value stage. Clearly, for the same money we can do a lot more monitoring than gate-type inspections; if we do the former, we may well contribute more to the overall quality of the product than if we choose less frequent gate-like inspections. The trade-off here is not obvious, and any choice has to be made with a specific case in mind. As a rule of thumb, we should lean toward monitoring when experience shows we are not likely to encounter big problems.

$ sed -n '171p' fuentes/grove_high_output/cap_03.md
To implement the actual simplification, you must question why each step is performed. Typically, you will find that many steps exist in your work flow for no good reason. Often they are there by tradition or because formal procedure ordains it, and nothing practical requires their inclusion. Remember, the “visa factory” at our embassy in Britain didn’t really have to process 100 percent of the applicants. So no matter what reason may be given for a step, you must critically question each and throw out those that common sense says you can do without. We found that in a wide range of administrative activities at Intel, substantial reduction-about 30 percent-could be achieved in the number of steps required to perform various tasks.

