L15: One of your most important responsibilities to keep everything moving smoothly is to decide who needs to communicate with whom and how frequently. This means meetings. Obviously, every meeting comes with a significant cost—time—so it is important to minimize the duration, frequency and number of people required to attend. The most important of these meetings is the 1:1 with each of your direct reports.
L17: 1:1 Conversations
L19: Staff Meetings
L21: Think Time
L23: “Big Debate” Meetings
L25: “Big Decision” Meetings
L27: All-Hands Meetings
L29: Meeting-Free Zones
L31: Kanban Boards
L33: Walk Around
L35: Be Conscious of Culture
L37: 1:1 CONVERSATIONS
L39: Employees set the agenda, you listen and help them clarify
L41: 1:1S ARE YOUR must-do meetings, your single best opportunity to listen, really listen, to the people on your team to make sure you understand their perspective on what’s working and what’s not working. These meetings also provide an opportunity to get to know your direct reports—to move up on the “care personally” dimension of the Radical Candor framework. Remember: this is not the place to dump all of the criticism you’ve been saving up. That should come in those two- to three-minute impromptu conversations that you’ve already been having!
L43: The purpose of a 1:1 meeting is to listen and clarify—to understand what direction each person working for you wants to head in, and what is blocking them. Sheryl once quickly helped me in a 1:1 meeting solve a problem that was enormously important to me and had seemed insurmountable until we talked. I was managing teams in ten different cities around the world and wanted to travel to each of them. At the same time, I was forty and trying to start a family. It’s pretty hard to get pregnant when you’re five thousand miles away from your husband. What to do? I brought my dilemma to Sheryl. “Oh, that’s easy!” she said. I was all ears. “You can’t. And you don’t have any time to waste. You need to make getting pregnant your top priority.” I was immensely relieved. It had seemed impossible to travel and get pregnant at the same time, and I was glad to hear Sheryl say what I had felt. But I also felt crestfallen. Did this mean I couldn’t do my job? Of course not! “Remember that global off-site meeting your team wanted but we had a hard time getting budget for?” Sheryl asked. “Let’s take another crack at getting the budget. That way you can fly everybody here. They want to come, and you don’t want to go. Seems like a win-win.”
L45: Here are a few things you can do to make sure you and each of your reports are getting the most out of these 1:1 meetings:
L47: Mind-set
L49: Your mind-set will go a long way in determining how well the 1:1s go. I found that when I quit thinking of them as meetings and began treating them as if I were having lunch or coffee with somebody I was eager to get to know better, they ended up yielding much better conversations. If scheduling them over a meal helps, make them periodic lunches. If you and your direct report like to walk and there’s a good place to take a walk near the office, make them walking meetings. If you are a morning person, schedule them in the morning. If you are a person who has an energy dip at 2 P.M., don’t schedule them at 2 P.M. You have a lot of meetings, so you can optimize the 1:1 time and location for your energy. Just don’t be a jerk about it. You may like to wake up at 5 A.M. and go to the gym. Don’t expect the people who work for you to meet you there.
L51: Frequency
L53: Time doesn’t scale, but it’s also vital to relationships. 1:1s should be a natural bottleneck that determines how many direct reports a boss can have. I like to meet with each person who works directly for me for fifty minutes a week. But I can’t bear more than about five hours of 1:1 time in my calendar. Listening is hard work, and I don’t have an endless capacity for it every day. So I like to limit myself to five direct reports. When people are remote, I make sure that those conversations happen over video conference, and I try to supplement them with more frequent quick check-ins.
L55: This is not realistic for a lot of companies—including some of the ones where I’ve worked. If you have ten direct reports, I’d shift 1:1s to twenty-five minutes a week. Plenty of people I know have twenty direct reports, and there’s nothing they can do about it. It’s just the nature of the way their companies are managed. If you’re in that situation, I recommend twenty-five minutes every other week with each direct report. Also, see if you can create some leadership opportunities for the people who work for you and reduce the number of direct reports you have.
L57: Finally, to avoid meeting proliferation, I recommend that managers use the 1:1 time to have “career conversations” (see chapter seven) and, if relevant, to do formal performance reviews.
L59: Show up!
L61: Probably the most important advice for 1:1s is just to show up. In an ideal world, you have less than ten direct reports so that you can have a weekly 1:1 with each of them. Even in that ideal world, between your travel schedule, the fact that you will inevitably get sick sometimes, and the occasional vacation, you will have to cancel at least two or three out of thirteen scheduled 1:1s. If you reserve some of those slots for special 1:1s (i.e., performance reviews, soliciting feedback, “career conversations”), you will have only seven or eight “regular” 1:1s per quarter. And if your world is not ideal and you have more than ten direct reports, you probably have 1:1s every other week. That means you’re having three or four 1:1s with each of your direct reports per quarter. So, no matter what fires erupt in your day, do not cancel your 1:1s.
L63: Your direct report’s agenda, not yours
L65: When your direct reports own and set the agenda for their 1:1s, they’re more productive, because they allow you to listen to what matters to them. However, I recommend setting basic expectations for the agenda and how it’s delivered. Do you even want a structured agenda? If you do, and you want to see it in advance, say so. If you don’t, and you won’t even look at it in advance, set expectations accordingly. Are you OK if they come in with a set of bulleted items jotted on a napkin, or do you prefer they keep it in a shared document so you can refer back to it? Whether you want a structured agenda or you prefer a more free-flowing meeting, the agenda itself should be directed by your direct report, not you. Your job is to hold people accountable when they come unprepared—or to decide that it’s fine to have an agenda-less 1:1 from time to time.
