$ grep -rn -i "Can I help by making an introduction" fuentes/scott_radical_candor/*.md
fuentes/scott_radical_candor/cap_06.md:299:When you fire someone, you create the possibility for the person to excel and find happiness performing meaningful work elsewhere. Part of getting a good job is leaving a bad one, or one that’s bad for you. As my grandmother once said to me, “There’s a lid for every pot.” Just because the person is not good at the job they do for you doesn’t mean there isn’t another job out there they could be great at. I know that this can sound very Pollyanna-ish, so before our meeting, I try to imagine specifically what that job might be. I also try to reframe the problem, for both me and the person I’m firing: it’s not the person who sucks, it’s the job that sucks-at least for this person. What job would be great for that person? Can I help by making an introduction?

$ grep -rn -i "bank teller" fuentes/scott_radical_candor/*.md
fuentes/scott_radical_candor/cap_06.md:297:1. Recall a job you were terrible at and think how glad you feel that you’re no longer in it. One summer in high school I got a job as a bank teller. I don’t do math well in my head, and so I often counted out the wrong change. Since customers generally caught errors in the bank’s favor but weren’t always honest when they came out ahead, I gave away a lot of the bank’s money. My boss did not fire me. Instead, she said, “You can do this! If you just try, if you just focus, you can balance every day!” Now what had just been a math problem felt like a character flaw. But the harder I tried, the worse I became. Still my boss continued to cheer me on. I was miserable. I should have quit and gotten a job mowing grass. If my boss had simply fired me by saying, “You are clearly not interested in this work. Why don’t you find a different job this summer?” she’d have done me a big favor-and saved the bank a lot of money. Instead, I suffered and muddled through until the summer’s end. But what if it had been a permanent job and I had stayed on indefinitely?

$ grep -rn -i "cold sweats" fuentes/scott_radical_candor/*.md

$ grep -rn -i "Peter Principle\|level of incompetence\|rock star" fuentes/scott_radical_candor/cap_06.md | head
15:A leader at Apple had a good way to think about different types of ambition that people on her team had so that she could be thoughtful about what roles to put people in. To keep a team cohesive, you need both rock stars and superstars, she explained. Rock stars are solid as a rock. Think the Rock of Gibraltar, not Bruce Springsteen. The rock stars love their work. They have found their groove. They don’t want the next job if it will take them away from their craft. Not all artists want to own a gallery; in fact, most don’t. If you honor and reward the rock stars, they’ll become the people you most rely on. If you promote them into roles they don’t want or aren’t suited for, however, you’ll lose them-or, even worse, wind up firing them. Superstars, on the other hand, need to be challenged and given new opportunities to grow constantly.
45:“Rock Star”
65:This set of questions around growth trajectory can help you discover what motivates each person much better than a set of questions around “potential” or “talent” could. And the insights it produces will help you avoid burning out the rock stars and boring the superstars. These questions will help remind you that trajectories change and that you shouldn’t put permanent labels on people. They will help you build stable teams that achieve astounding results.
79:The axes of this framework are past performance and future growth trajectories. The assessment of past performance on the horizontal axis of this framework does go from “bad” to “good,” but not the vertical axis. It’s just as good to be in the bottom-right quadrant as in the upper-right. Rock stars are just as important to a team’s performance as superstars. Stability is just as important as growth. The right mix of each will change over time, but you’ll always need some of each.
91:Gradual growth is characterized by stability. People on a gradual growth trajectory, who perform well, have generally mastered their work and are making incremental rather than sudden, dramatic improvements. Some roles may be better suited to a rock star because they require steadiness, accumulated knowledge, and an attention to detail that someone in a superstar phase might not have the focus or patience for.
